{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh7600\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This model aims to simulate the spread of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and safe sex attitudes and behaviors throughout social networks of of young adults, taking into account how these networks, attitudes, behaviors influence one another and develop over time.\
\
This model aims to simulate the spread of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and safe sex attitudes and behaviors throughout social networks of of young adults, taking into account the bidirectional nature of how these variables influence one another and develop attitude toward safe sex over time.\
\
change/develop/evolve attitudes\
\
This model aims to simulate the spread of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and safe sex attitudes and behaviors throughout social networks of of young adults, taking into account how these variables influence one another and change attitudes toward safe sex over time.\
\
This model aims to simulate the spread of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), as well as safe sex attitudes and behaviors throughout social networks of of young adults, taking into account how these variables simultaneously influence one another and change attitudes toward safe sex over time.\
\
prevalence? presence?\
\
This model aims to simulate the spread and development of safe sex attitudes and behaviors in response to the prevalence of a sexually transmitted infection (STI) throughout a social network of of young adults, taking into account how these variables simultaneously influence one another and change attitudes toward safe sex over time.\
\
taking into account how these variables simultaneously influence one another and change over time.\
\
\
\
**\
This model aims to simulate the spread and development of safe sex attitudes and behaviors in response to the prevalence of a sexually transmitted infection (STI) throughout a social network of of young adults, taking into account how these variables  influence one another and change over time.\
\
\
\
For this model, in order to focus on a central \
\
\
For this model, sexual orientation is not a parameter, and we are only considering heterosexual/heteronormative, college-aged young adults (both male and female). Agents in the simulation can only have one partner at a time\
\
\
\
This model only simulates heterosexual/heteronormative, college-aged young adults (both male and female). Agents in the simulation can only have a maximum of one partner at a time. Modeling the complexities of different types of sexual behaviors (abstinence, long-term monogamy, or strictly hook-ups)\
\
\
\
\
Although some Social groups/cliques are generated at the beginning of the simulation and remain static , rather than evolving over time. \
\
\
Although some members of the cliques have or may develop links to agents in other groups, the social groups are generated at the beginning of the simulation and remain fairly static, rather than agents changing group membership over time, or being able to be part of more than one group at a time.\
\
\
\
distinguished by shape. gender symbology general universal\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640
\cf0 The SETUP button creates groups of individuals/agents/people with unique/individual/particular/specific values \
Using the sliders, choose the number of social groups (NUM-CLIQUES) to create, and how many people should make up each social group (CLIQUE-SIZE). \
\
\
\
The SETUP button creates groups of individuals/agents/people with unique/individual/particular/specific values. These groups primarily consist of inter-group connections, but one "leader" in each group is linked to "leaders" from all other groups. These leaders have no unique qualities, other than setting up a visual layout and generating a very loosely connected social network of mostly discrete social groups/clusters. \
\
num-cliques - the number of social groups/clusters to create\
clique-size - how many people will be in/make up each clique/cluster/social-group\
avg-num-links - average number of friends that an agent has (visualized by breed of link) (average-node-degree)\
\
The network is created by generating NUM-CLIQUES clusters, each consisting of CLIQUE-SIZE agents. Agents within a clique are connected to one another, and each agent will end up with/has (on average/about/around) AVG-NUM-LINKS "friends" that they are connected to via a blue link. One of these links will be to the central "leader" of the clique. This "leader" is identical to other agents, except it additionally has links to all other clique "leaders". \
\
Using the sliders, choose the number of social groups (NUM-CLIQUES) to create, and how many people should make up each social group (CLIQUE-SIZE). \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1 \cf0 Using the sliders, choose the NUMBER-OF-NODES and the AVERAGE-NODE-DEGREE (average number of links coming out of each node).\
The network that is created is based on proximity (Euclidean distance) between nodes. A node is randomly chosen and connected to the nearest node that it is not already connected to. This process is repeated until the network has the correct number of links to give the specified average node degree.\
\
\
The SETUP button creates a very loosely connected social network consisting\
\
\
Using the sliders, choose the number of social groups (NUM-CLIQUES) to create, how many people should make up each social group (CLIQUE-SIZE), and the average number of "friends" each agent will have within the group (AVG-NUM-LINKS). The network is generated \
\
Using the sliders, choose the number of social groups (NUM-CLIQUES) to create and how many people should make up each social group (CLIQUE-SIZE). The agents within the clique are only connected to others within connected to one another, and will have about AVG-NUM-LINKS "friends" that they are connected to via a blue link. One of these links will be to the central "leader" of the clique. This "leader" is identical to other agents, except it additionally has links to all other clique "leaders". \
\
AVG-NUM-LINKS "friends" that they are connected to via a blue link. One of these links will be to the central "leader" of the clique. This "leader" is identical to other agents, except it additionally has links to all other clique "leaders". \
\
others within their social group, and will have about AVG-NUM-LINKS "friends", that they are connected to via a blue link. One of these links will be to the central "leader" of the clique. This "leader" is identical to other agents, except it additionally has links to all other clique "leaders", which helps set up a visual layout and generates a very loosely connected soci\
\
\
------\
\
\
Using the sliders, choose the number of social groups (NUM-CLIQUES) to create and how many people should make up each social group (CLIQUE-SIZE). The agents within the clique are only connected to others within their social group, and will have about AVG-NUM-LINKS "friends", that they are connected to via a blue link. One of these links will be to the central "leader" of the clique. This "leader" is identical to other agents, except it additionally has links to all other clique "leaders", which helps set up a visual layout and generates a very loosely connected social network containing mostly discrete clusters. \
\
The SETUP button generates the network with equal numbers of males and females, and assigns unique values to each individual, based on a normal distribution centered around the average values indicated by the sliders AVG-MESOSYSTEM-CONDOM-ENCOURAGEMENT and AVG-MALE-CONDOM-INTENTION/AVG-FEMALE-CONDOM-INTENTION (depends on agent's gender),as well as setting other variables that are not visible to the user in the same fashion (e.g. tendency to make a friend or sexual partner, maximum length of time willing to spend coupled with a sexual partner).\
\
\
\
The SETUP button generates the network with equal numbers of males and females, and assigns unique values to each individual, based on a normal distribution centered around the average values indicated by the sliders AVG-MESOSYSTEM-CONDOM-ENCOURAGEMENT and AVG-MALE-CONDOM-INTENTION/AVG-FEMALE-CONDOM-INTENTION (depends on agent's gender),as well as setting other variables that are not visible to the user in the same fashion (e.g. tendency to make a friend or sexual partner, maximum length of time willing to spend coupled with a sexual partner). \
\
Agents in this model are either male or female - the difference between these agents is distinguished by shape. An infected person is denoted with the addition of a dot on their body.\
\
\
\
\
Agents in this model are either male or female - the difference between these agents is distinguishable by their shape. Their color indicates their likelihood of engaging in safe sex (red = least likely --> green = most likely).  An infected person is denoted with the addition of a dot on their body, and they will have a INFECTION-CHANCE chance of infecting a partner during unprotected sex. If they are of a gender that is symptomatic of the STI (set by the SYMPTOMATIC? chooser), they are aware of their infected status, the dot will be white, and the agent will automatically practice safe sex to protect his or her partners. However, if the agent is not a gender that is symptomatic, the dot will appear black, they will be oblivious to their infected state, and have their normal probability of practicing safe sex with a sexual partner, which is a combination of \
\
symptomatic, the dot will appear black, they will be oblivious to their infected state, and continue their normal probab\
\
\
An agent's likelihood of engaging in safe sex is a probability that depends on his or her:\
 -- Attitude:  their personal desire to have safe sex (CONDOM-USAGE) is originally set by sliders dependent on gender.\
 -- Certainty:  their conviction with which they hold their attitude. The influence of an individual's upbringing, such as parental beliefs and religious attitudes (symbolized by the MESOSYSTEM-CONDOM-ENCOURAGEMENT variable), represents their initial certainty.\
 -- Justification:  logical explanations for their attitude. Initially, this will be set to a variable representing a level of sex ed.\
\
Justification is influenced by \
 -- Certainty: ,  Agents in this model are either male or female - the difference between these agents is distinguishable by their shape. Their color indicates their likelihood of engaging in safe sex (red = least likely --> green = most likely). \
\
SETUP will infect one person in the population by default. If the user wants to infect another agent, they can do so through pressing SELECT and choosing an agent, or INFECT-RANDOM. This can also be done while the model is running. \
\
\
\
\
Each time step (tick), if an agent is coupled, they increment the length of their relationship. On every tick, \
\
If an agent is does not have a sexual partner, they attempt to find a mate that is single and of the opposite gender. First they examine their friends, if that is unsuccessful, they try finding a agent within the same social circle that they are not linked to, and as a last resort, they try to find the closest potential mate.\
\
Every agent, regardless of coupled status, has a chance to make a new friend, if their friend count has not already reached a maximum. \
\
Coupled agents then potentially uncouple, if their relationship length has gotten too long. Remaining couples have the chance to infect each other, based on a probability of having sex and using protection. If an agent becomes infected (and is symptomatic) through this interaction, they do not realize they are infected until the next tick.\

\f0 \
\
\
Each time step (tick), if an agent is coupled, they increment the length of their relationship. The sexual relationship lasts for a limited period of time (based on the commitment levels of each partner), and then the two will break all links to one another when the sexual relationship ends. On every tick while the two agents are coupled, if one partner is infected, the other partner is at risk for infection if both partners do not use condoms. \
\
Coupled agents then potentially uncouple,if their relationship length has gotten too  long. Remaining couples have the chance to infect each other, based on a probability of having sex and using protection. If an agent becomes infected (and is symptomatic) through this interaction, they do not realize they are infected until the next tick.\
\
\
On every tick while the two agents are coupled, if one partner is infected, the other partner is at risk for infection,  if both partners do not use condoms. \
\
Coupled agents then potentially uncouple,if their relationship length has gotten too  long. Remaining couples have the chance to infect each other,  If an agent becomes infected (and is symptomatic) through this interaction, they do not realize they are infected until the next tick.\
\
---\
\
\
\
Using the sliders, choose the number of social groups (NUM-CLIQUES) to create and how many people should make up each social group (CLIQUE-SIZE). The agents within the clique are only connected to others within their social group, and will have about AVG-NUM-LINKS "friends", that they are connected to via a blue link. One of these links will be to the central "leader" of the clique. This "leader" is identical to other agents, except it additionally has links to all other clique "leaders", which helps set up a visual layout and generates a very loosely connected social network containing mostly discrete clusters. \
\
The SETUP button generates this network and assigns unique values to each individual, based on a normal distribution centered around the average values indicated by the sliders AVG-MESOSYSTEM-CONDOM-ENCOURAGEMENT and AVG-MALE-CONDOM-INTENTION/AVG-FEMALE-CONDOM-INTENTION (depends on agent's gender),as well as setting other variables that are not visible to the user in the same fashion (e.g. tendency to make a friend or sexual partner, maximum length of time willing to spend coupled with a sexual partner).\
\
An infected person is denoted with the addition of a dot on their body, and they will have a INFECTION-CHANCE chance of infecting a partner during unprotected sex. If they are of a gender that is symptomatic of the STI (set by the SYMPTOMATIC? chooser), they are aware of their infected status, the dot will be white, and the agent will automatically practice safe sex to protect his or her partners. However, if the agent is not a gender that is symptomatic, the dot will appear black, they will be oblivious to their infected state, and continue their normal probability of practicing safe sex.\
\
Agents in this model are either male or female - the difference between these agents is distinguishable by their shape. Their color indicates their likelihood of engaging in safe sex (red = least likely --> green = most likely). \
\
An agent's likelihood of engaging in safe sex is a probability that depends on his or her:\
-- Attitude:  their personal desire/intention to have safe sex (CONDOM-USAGE) is originally set by sliders dependent on gender.\
-- Certainty:  their conviction with which they hold their attitude. The influence of an individual's upbringing, such as parental beliefs and religious attitudes (symbolized by the MESOSYSTEM-CONDOM-ENCOURAGEMENT variable), represents their initial certainty.\
-- Justification:  the strength of the logical explanations to back up their attitude. Initially, this will be set to a variable representing a level of sex ed. Experiences such as contracting an STD, or a friend contracting an STD, would increase this parameter.\
\
SETUP will infect one person in the population by default. If the user wants to infect another agent, they can do so through pressing SELECT and choosing an agent, or INFECT-RANDOM. This can also be done while the model is running. \
\
}