{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red146\green205\blue220;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Symptoms of sexually transmitted infections aren't always visible or known, and some STIs display symptoms differently in different genders. These factors impact how often a particular gender might choose to get tested or use protection in sexual encounters. To better simulate real-life behaviors, implement the chance that females have a high likelihood of experiencing symptoms, while males do not. If a person experiences symptoms, they can become treated and cured of the infection in some defined amount of time. You can also implement the condition that if a person thinks they are infected, they will definitely use protection. See how these changes impact the outcome of the model.\
\
In different relationships, condom use may vary. Additionally, condoms are not always effective or properly used, and may be used for some sexual acts, but not others. To more accurately account for likelihood of condom use and consequent transmission of infections, create different condom-use tendencies for each sexual orientation and create a probability that a condom is ineffective\
\
\
\
-- talking to partner is different than just friends, possible different genders of friends too\
\
and some individuals might refuse to have unprotected sex, potentially causing tension between the couple.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl360\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 Do a sample simulation?? With pictuers!! \
Female 0 is infected. She is not symptomatic. She mates with male 0, and he becomes symptomatic, immediately changing his attitude towards safe sex from pretty negative to strongly positive. By talking to his peers, he persuades them to improve their attitudes as well. Since he is very certain of his opinion, he talks to all his friends. However, direct experience is more powerful than second hand experience, so they are not super duper impacted by his story, but their attitudes may improve slightly. If they are very polarized (super negative), they will react negatively to talking to male 0, and become more certain of their negative attitude???\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl360\slmult1

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Pictures from poster: \
Members of the same social group influence one another\'92s attitudes\
Still has a negative attitude towards wearing a condom, because he doesn\'92t realize he is infected\
Dot color indicates whether the agent knows they have an STI (based on being symptomatic)\
Once an agent realizes they have an STI, they form a strong desire for safe sex \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf2 if coupled, have sex EVERY time! and if not coupled, ALWAYS looking for a partner\'85.. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri720\sl360\slmult1
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'a5	
\f0 interaction between sexual partners and peers equal or no?\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f0 -- talking to partner is different than just friends, possible different genders of friends too\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f0 strength of relationships  stronger relationship sexually = less to use condom? Stronger with friends = more likely to talk about it?? Didn\'92t find research to support these, but seems intuitive\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f0 sexual partners don\'92t break up due to different attitudes!!! This could be big area of conflict, suggest an extension (duplicate above)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-360\ri720\sl360\slmult1
\ls2\ilvl1
\f3 \cf0 o	
\f0 More realistic interactions between groups, less social butterfly potential?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0 extension potential for both generation and analysis\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri720\sl360\slmult1
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'a5	
\f0 Creating \'93advocates\'94 \'96 at NU, SHAPE program\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0 the ONLY way someone can know they are infected is through beings ymptomatic.. incorporate telling past partners if you realize you have an std, more responsible behavior. But also include a likelihood of people to do this.}