{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
but it should be more polished than proposal\
\
and also contain sections describing your analysis of the model. \
\
--- Overview ---\
big picture overview. A clear and succinct description of the overall picture. (1 - 2 paragraphs)\
I plan to design and implement a NetLogo model of a ...\
\
Relevance\
description of what can be learned. A description of what can be learned from the project (by you or by others). In particular, what is the guiding question or questions that your model will attempt to answer? (1/2 page \'96 1 page)\
\
\'95	A first pass at how you will implement your project. (~ 1.5 \'96 2 pages)\uc0\u8232 This should include a reasonably detailed description of the primitives or models you plan to use\
as well as a high level description of the activities. \
o	What are the agents?\
o	How many types of agents?\
o	What are the interactions?\
o	What analysis tools will you use?\
o	What kinds of measures will you use?\
\
Rationale\
A rationale for your choices. (this section should expand over time)\
o	Why the option you are choosing (NetLogo, networks) is a good fit with your design goals\
o	Why you are selecting these particular models, parts, or primitives\
o	Why doing this in a computational agent-based setting is a potential win (in particular, what is lacking in the current alternative approaches to doing or learning this)\
 \
\
Agent behavior: How do the agents behave/work? \
\
\
\
System behavior: How does the overall system behave/work? \
\
\
\
Rationale for agent rules: Why did you give the agents these rules? \
\
\
\
Model output: Do you think your model currently provides a good description of the system\'92s behavior? Why or why not? \
\
\
\
\
Questions: What questions do you have about your model? \
\
\
\
\
Next steps: Briefly list your next steps for improving the model. \
\
\
Analysis\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
}