{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue51;\red255\green249\blue89;\red133\green0\blue175;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11480\viewh14600\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Attitude Certainty_ A Review of Past Findings and Emerging Perspectives highlights\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1\fs16 \cf0 \'a9 2007 The Authors 
\i Social and Personality Psychology Compass 
\i0 1/1 (2007): 469\'96492, 10.1111/j.1751-9004.2007.00025.x Journal Compilation \'a9 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd
\fs24 \
Attitude Certainty 481
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640
\cf0 \
Attitude Certainty: A Review of Past Findings and Emerging Perspectives\
Zakary L. Tormala1,* and Derek D. Rucker2\
\
\
Abstract\
Attitude certainty, or the sense of conviction with which one holds one\'92s attitude, \
\
This article provides an overview of past, present, and future research on this topic. \
review past work on attitude certainty, focusing on what has been learned about the antecedents and consequences of feeling certain or uncertain of one\'92s attitude. \
Following we examine emerging perspectives on attitude certainty. describe recent work exploring the metacognitive appraisals that shape attitude certainty, the different meanings attitude certainty can have, and the dynamic effects of attitude certainty on attitude strength. \
Along the way, we also highlight important questions that have yet be answered about the certainty construct.\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1\b\fs30 \cf0 \cb2 Attitude
\b0 \cb1 : refers to one\'92s evaluation of something (e.g., the extent to which one likes a person, favors a brand, or supports a policy)\

\b \cb2 attitude certainty
\b0 \cb1 : refers to the subjective sense of conviction one has about one\'92s attitude, or the extent to which one is confident or sure of one\'92s attitude\

\b attitude certainty
\b0  is a metacognitive aspect of attitudes in that it reflects a secondary cognition (e.g., Ron is certain that he dislikes sharks.) attached to a primary cognition (i.e., Ron\'92s negative attitude toward sharks) (Petty, Bri\'f1ol, Tormala, & Wegener, 2007)
\fs24 \
\

\fs30 Attitude certainty can range from low to high, but it \ul need not be grounded in reality\ulnone . That is, people can feel certain or uncertain, and this assessment can be \ul independent of what any objective \'91evidence\'92\ulnone  suggests is warranted.
\fs24  (smoking example)\

\fs30 Attitude certainty is considered to be a \ul dimension of attitude strength\ulnone ,
\fs24 \

\b\fs30 \cb3 attitude strength:
\b0 \cb1  is defined as the durability and impactfulness of an attitude (Krosnick & Petty, 1995)
\fs24 \

\fs30 strong attitudes are more likely to guide behavior, more likely to resist influence attempts, and more likely to persist across time (for reviews, see Petty & Krosnick, 1995).
\fs24 \

\fs30 Attitude certainty is distinct from other dimensions of attitude strength, such as attitude extremity, attitude importance, attitude accessibility, and attitude intensity (e.g., Krosnick, Boninger, Chuang, Berent, & Carnot 1993; Visser, Bizer, & Krosnick, 2006).
\fs24 \
\

\b\fs30 \cb2 Attitude extremity:
\b0 \cb1  refers to the degree to which one\'92s attitude is positive or negative (Abelson, 1995)
\fs24 \
\

\fs30 traditionally has been defined somewhat broadly as\

\b \cb2 attitude certainty:
\b0 \cb1  the sense of conviction one has about one\'92s attitude, or the extent to which one feels confident or sure about one\'92s attitude.
\fs24 \
\

\fs30 two forms of attitude certainty: attitude clarity and attitude correctness. \

\b \cb2 Attitude clarity: 
\i\b0 \cb1  
\i0 refers to the subjective sense that one knows what one\'92s attitude on a topic really is.\

\b \cb2 Attitude correctness: 
\b0 \cb1 refers to the subjective sense that one\'92s attitude is correct or valid. \
Although clarity and correctness might often be correlated in practice, these two forms of certainty are conceptually distinct. One might feel quite certain that one knows what one\'92s attitude is (\'91I know I didn\'92t like that movie.\'92), for example, without being certain of that attitude\'92s correctness (\'91Everyone else seemed to like it, though, so maybe I missed something.\'92).
\fs24 \
pg 482\
\
what i WONT take into account -- growing stronger against strong arguments\
\
pae 477 - assume that more likely to change and be certain if changed by strong arguments\
\
\

\fs30 "This feeling of greater knowledge, in turn, fosters greater attitude certainty (see also Smith et al., forthcoming)." (p. 480)
\fs24 \

\fs30 When one\'92s own response matches (mismatches) the
\fs24  
\fs30 responses of others, one forms more positive (negative) response appraisals, producing higher (lower) levels of attitude certainty.\
1) When one\'92s own response \ul mismatches\ulnone  the
\fs24  
\fs30 responses of others, one forms more negative response appraisals, producing lower levels of attitude certainty.\
2) When one\'92s own response \ul matches\ulnone  the
\fs24  
\fs30 responses of others, one forms more positive  response appraisals, producing higher levels of attitude certainty.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Own vs. other's responses: match\
Appraisal formed: 		positive\
Attitude certainty level: 	higher\
\
Own vs. other's responses: mismatch\
Appraisal formed: 		negative\
Attitude certainty level: 	lower
\f1\fs30 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs30 \cf0 the more certain one is of one\'92s attitude, the more predictive that attitude is of behavior (e.g., Fazio & Zanna, 1978; Rucker & Petty, 2004; Tormala et al., 2006)\
and the more resistant that attitude is to attack\
(e.g., Babad et al., 1987; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Tormala, DeSensi, & Petty, 2007). \
pg 484\
\
amplification hypothesis makes an interaction prediction, suggesting that increasing attitude certainty will make an attitude stronger when an attitude is univalent, but weaker when an attitude is ambivalent.
\fs24 \
 pg 486\
yeah\'85 not dealing with amplification theories and shit for ambivalence becasuse tis weird and hard\
\
tormala seems to care a lot about attitude persuasion resistance\
\
--------------------------------------------\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\f0\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Attitude:
\b0 \ulnone \
one\'92s evaluation of something (e.g., the extent to which one likes a person, favors a brand, or supports a policy)\
\
\

\b \ul Attitude strength: 
\b0 \ulnone the durability and impactfulness of an attitude\
\
strong attitudes are:\
more likely to guide behavior,\
more likely to resist influence attempts, and\
more likely to persist across time \
\

\b -- Dimensions of attitude strength: --
\b0 \
attitude extremity: the degree to which one\'92s attitude is positive or negative \
attitude importance\
attitude accessibility: how accessible the attitude is in memory\
attitude intensity\
-->attitude certainty\
\

\b \ul Attitude certainty:
\b0 \ulnone \
the sense of conviction with which one holds one\'92s attitude, \
the subjective sense of conviction one has about one\'92s attitude, or the extent to which one is confident or sure of one\'92s attitude\
the sense of conviction one has about one\'92s attitude, or the extent to which one feels confident or sure about one\'92s attitude.\
metacognitive aspect of attitudes -  it reflects a secondary cognition (e.g., Ron is certain that he dislikes sharks.) attached to a primary cognition (i.e., Ron\'92s negative attitude toward sharks)\
need not be grounded in reality - can be independent of what any objective \'91evidence\'92 \
\
\cf4 the [subjective]
\b  sense of conviction
\b0  one has about one\'92s attitude, or the extent to which one is/feels 
\b confident or sure
\b0  of/about one\'92s attitude.\cf0 \
\
\
the more certain one is of one\'92s attitude,\
the more predictive that attitude is of behavior and\
the more resistant that attitude is to attack ( pg 484 )\
\

\b \ul two distinct forms of attitude certainty:
\b0 \ulnone \

\b Attitude clarity:
\b0   the subjective sense that one knows what one\'92s attitude on a topic really is. \

\b Attitude correctness:
\b0   the subjective sense that one\'92s attitude is correct or valid. \
\
Conceptually different: One might feel quite certain that one knows what one\'92s attitude is (\'91I know I didn\'92t like that movie.\'92), for example, without being certain of that attitude\'92s correctness (\'91Everyone else seemed to like it, though, so maybe I missed something.\'92). pg 482\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1 \cf0 --------------------------------------------\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\f0\b \cf0 Attitude clarity:
\b0  --> Attitude\

\b Attitude correctness:
\b0  --> Justification\
\
The studies of Petrocelli et al. (2007)\'85 suggest that attitude certainty is not a monolithic construct, 484\
\
\
\
--------------------------\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1\fs30 \cf0 people tend to be more certain
\fs24  
\fs30 of their attitudes when those attitudes are formed through direct (e.g., first hand interactions) rather than indirect (e.g., second hand viewing or reading) experience (e.g., Fazio & Zanna, 1978; Wu & Shaffer, 1987).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs16 \cf0 \'a9 2007 The Authors 
\i Social and Personality Psychology Compass 
\i0 1/1 (2007): 469\'96492, 10.1111/j.1751-9004.2007.00025.x Journal Compilation \'a9 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd
\fs24 \
Attitude Certainty 470-471\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs30 \cf0 greater perceived knowledge has been shown to foster greater attitude certainty (e.g., Smith, Fabrigar, MacDougal, & Wiesenthal, forthcoming).
\fs24 \
pg 471\
\
r
\fs30 epeating one\'92s attitude multiple times also has been shown to affect attitude certainty
\fs24 \
pg 471 (increases it)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\i\fs30 \cf0 Social consensus. 
\i0 \'85 people hold attitudes with greater certainty when those attitudes are supported by a high degree of social consensus or agreement (e.g., Festinger, 1954; Orive, 1988; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Visser & Mirabile, 2004).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs24 \cf0 pg 472\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs30 \cf0 attitude certainty was greater following attitudinal agreement rather than disagreement. In essence, people infer validity from social consensus (e.g., Fazio, 1979) \'96 consensus is thought to signal that all the evidence points to the same attitude, which boosts attitude certainty if one holds that attitude oneself.
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs16 \cf0 \'a9 2007 The Authors 
\i Social and Personality Psychology Compass 
\i0 1/1 (2007): 469\'96492, 10.1111/j.1751-9004.2007.00025.x Journal Compilation \'a9 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd
\fs24 \
Attitude Certainty 472-473\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\i\fs30 \cf0 attitude certainty has important implications for the durability and impact of an attitude. In particular, attitude certainty has consequences for attitude\'96behavior correspondence, an attitude\'92s tendency to resist persuasive attack, an attitude\'92s general persistence or stability over time, and people\'92s motivation to process new information.
\i0\fs24 \
generic, 473\
\

\i\fs30 Attitude-behavior correspondence.
\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs30 \cf0 as attitude certainty increases, attitudes become increasingly likely to guide behavior (e.g., Berger & Mitchell, 1989; Bizer et al., 2006; Fazio & Zanna, 1978; Krishnan & Smith, 1998; Rucker & Petty, 2004; Tormala & Petty, 2002). \
pg 473\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\i \cf0 Resistance to attack. 
\i0 Also important, attitudes held with high certainty are more likely than attitudes held with low certainty to resist persuasive attacks or other influence attempts (e.g., Babad, Ariav, Rosen, & Salomon, 1987; Bassili, 1996; Kelley & Lamb, 1957; Krosnick & Abelson, 1992; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Swann, Pelham, & Chidester, 1988; Tormala & Petty, 2002).
\fs24 \
pg 473\
\
474\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs30 \cf0 Even without being directly challenged, attitudes can change over time.
\fs24 \

\fs30 attitudes held with greater certainty are more persistent over time than attitudes held with less certainty (Bassili, 1996; see also Bizer et al., 2006).
\fs24 \
\

\fs30 high certainty tends to be associated with decreased informa- tion processing activity compared to low certainty (Edwards, 2003; Tiedens & Linton, 2001; Weary & Jacobson, 1997).\
\
Conversely, uncertainty indicates that people do not have sufficient knowledge, and scrutinizing additional information offers one way to acquire knowledge and restore or establish certainty.
\fs24 \
\
pg 474\
\
pg 475\

\fs30 We propose that when people receive persuasive messages, they can perceive their own responses to these messages (i.e., persuasion or resistance), reflect on those responses, and form attribution-like inferences about their attitudes that have implications for attitude certainty. \'85  Furthermore, we posit that these effects can occur in the absence of any differences in the structure of people\'92s attitudes or the underlying content of their cognition (e.g., their attitude valence, extremity, or accessibility; the number or type of thoughts they have).
\fs24 \
476\

\fs30 How do people\'92s perceptions of their own responses to persuasive messages affect attitude certainty? We have proposed an attributional logic (see Kelley, 1972), suggesting that people can become either more or less certain of their attitudes following an encounter with a persuasive message, depending on their perceptions of their response to that message and the situation in which it occurs.
\fs24 \

\fs30 Situational factors that \ul foster positive appraisals\ulnone  of one\'92s message response should \ul increase attitude certainty\ulnone , whereas situational factors that \ul foster negative appraisals\ulnone  of one\'92s message response should \ul decrease attitude certainty\ulnone  (see Figure 1). In other words, 
\b people should become more certain of their attitudes when they believe their message response is justified, correct, legitimate, appropriate, or impressive (positive appraisal); and less certain of their attitudes when they believe their message response may be unjustified, incorrect, illegitimate, inappro- priate, or unimpressive (negative appraisal).
\b0\fs24 \

\fs30 \'85 That is, r
\b egardless of whether people actually were resistant to or persuaded by a message
\b0 , or whether their resistance or persuasion was correct or impressive in some way, 
\b they can become more or less certain of their attitudes
\b0  when their subjective assessment of their message response leads them to a positive or negative appraisal, respectively.
\fs24 \
478\

\fs30 perhaps people become more certain of their newly changed attitudes when they believe those attitudes have been changed by strong, and thus valid, arguments.
\fs24 \
479\

\fs30 In general, the more valid people think their thoughts are, the more certain they are about the postmessage attitudes.
\fs24 \
\
response similarity\'85\

\fs30 people tend to be more certain of their attitudes when they believe those attitudes are shared by others (e.g., Festinger, 1954; Orive, 1988; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Visser & Mirabile, 2004),\
presumably because learning that other people share one\'92s attitude provides 
\b social validation
\b0  for that attitude (Fazio, 1979).\
\'85\
they were more certain of their attitudes when they perceived that other people responded similarly rather than dissimilarly.
\fs24 \
\
pg 480\
\

\fs30 When one\'92s own response matches (mismatches) the
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs16 \cf0 \'a9 2007 The Authors 
\i Social and Personality Psychology Compass 
\i0 1/1 (2007): 469\'96492, 10.1111/j.1751-9004.2007.00025.x Journal Compilation \'a9 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd
\fs24 \
Attitude Certainty 481\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs30 \cf0 responses of others, one forms more positive (negative) response appraisals, producing higher (lower) levels of attitude certainty.
\fs24 \
480-481\
\

\fs30 Petrocelli et al. (2007)
\fs24 .. found that\

\fs30 clarity and correctness items were positively correlated, but they loaded onto separate factors in both exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses (see Table 1). Moreover, both clarity and correctness contributed to global attitude certainty in a simultaneous regression analysis, even after controlling for attitude extremity. Thus, clarity and correctness could be measured separately, and each appeared to explain unique variance in global feelings of attitude certainty.
\fs24 \
pg 482\
\

\fs30 Petrocelli et al. reasoned that these effects might mask more specific effects on clarity and correctness. For instance, repeated expression might increase feelings of attitude clarity but not correctness as repeatedly expressing the same attitude should facilitate the subjective sense that one knows what one\'92s attitude on a topic is without making that attitude seem any more correct or valid. Conversely, attitude consensus, or perceived social support for one\'92s attitude, might influence feelings of attitude correctness but not clarity. The rationale in this case is that believing that other individuals share one\'92s attitude should bolster one\'92s sense that that attitude is valid or justified, without making it seem any more one\'92s own.
\fs24 \
pg 483\
\

\fs30 Participants\'92 attitudes were more resistant to this attack when they were high rather than low in clarity, as well as when they were high rather than low in correctness.
\fs24 \
\

\fs30 the more certain one is of one\'92s attitude, the more predictive that attitude is of behavior (e.g., Fazio & Zanna, 1978; Rucker & Petty, 2004; Tormala et al., 2006) and the more resistant that attitude is to attack (e.g., Babad et al., 1987; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Tormala, DeSensi, & Petty, 2007).
\fs24 \
pg 484\
\

\fs30 univalent attitudes tend to be more resistant to persuasive attack (e.g., Armitage & Conner, 2000; Visser & Mirabile, 2004) and more predictive of attitude-relevant behavior (e.g., Armitage & Conner; Glasman & Albarrac\'edn, 2006) than their ambivalent counterparts.
\fs24 \
\

\fs30 s. Repeated attitude expression, for instance, affects attitude certainty but not attitude ambivalence (Petrocelli et al., 2007).
\fs24 \
485\
\

\fs30 Clarkson et al. (2007) extended these initial findings by testing another consequence of attitude certainty: attitude\'96 behavior correspondence. Again, it is well established that high certainty attitudes are more predictive of behavior than low certainty attitudes (e.g., Fazio & Zanna, 1978).
\fs24 \
487\
\
488\

\fs30 Clarkson et al. (2007) expands current understandings of attitude certainty, suggesting that certainty has a fluid impact that depends on other properties of the attitude in question, such as the level of ambivalence underlying the attitude.
\fs24 \

\fs30 ...perhaps attitude clarity acts as an amplifying agent to the extent that it makes one\'92s ambivalence more salient and pressing, whereas attitude correctness acts as a crystallizing agent to the extent that it makes ambivalence seem more appropriate and less troublesome.
\fs24 \
\
-----------------------------\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\f0 \cf0 \'a9 2007 The Authors Social and Personality Psychology Compass 1/1 (2007): 469\'96492, 10.1111/j.1751-9004.2007.00025.x Journal Compilation \'a9 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd\
\
\'a9 2007 The Authors Social and Personality Psychology Compass 1/1 (2007): 469\'96492, 10.1111/j.1751-9004.2007.00025.x Journal Compilation \'a9 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd\
\
\
\
"people tend to be more certain of their attitudes when those attitudes are formed through direct (e.g., first hand interactions) rather than indirect (e.g., second hand viewing or reading) experience (e.g., Fazio & Zanna, 1978; Wu & Shaffer, 1987)." (pp. 470-471)\
\
\
\
\
"greater perceived knowledge has been shown to foster greater attitude certainty (e.g., Smith, Fabrigar, MacDougal, & Wiesenthal, forthcoming)." (p. 471)\
\
\
"repeating one\'92s attitude multiple times also has been shown to affect attitude certainty" (p. 471) (increases it)\
\
Social consensus. \'85 \
"people hold attitudes with greater certainty when those attitudes are supported by a high degree of social consensus or agreement (e.g., Festinger, 1954; Orive, 1988; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Visser & Mirabile, 2004)." (p. 472)\
\
"attitude certainty was greater following attitudinal agreement rather than disagreement. In essence, people infer validity from social consensus (e.g., Fazio, 1979) \'96 consensus is thought to signal that all the evidence points to the same attitude, which boosts attitude certainty if one holds that attitude oneself." (pp. 472-473)\
\
"Attitude-behavior correspondence."\
"as attitude certainty increases, attitudes become increasingly likely to guide behavior (e.g., Berger & Mitchell, 1989; Bizer et al., 2006; Fazio & Zanna, 1978; Krishnan & Smith, 1998; Rucker & Petty, 2004; Tormala & Petty, 2002). " (p. 473)\
\
Resistance to attack.\
"\'85attitudes held with high certainty are more likely than attitudes held with low certainty to resist persuasive attacks or other influence attempts (e.g., Babad, Ariav, Rosen, & Salomon, 1987; Bassili, 1996; Kelley & Lamb, 1957; Krosnick & Abelson, 1992; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Swann, Pelham, & Chidester, 1988; Tormala & Petty, 2002)." (p. 473)\
\
\
"Even without being directly challenged, attitudes can change over time." (p. 474)\
"attitudes held with greater certainty are more persistent over time than attitudes held with less certainty (Bassili, 1996; see also Bizer et al., 2006)." (p. 474)\
\
"high certainty tends to be associated with decreased information processing activity compared to low certainty (Edwards, 2003; Tiedens & Linton, 2001; Weary & Jacobson, 1997)." (p. 474)\
\
"Conversely, uncertainty indicates that people do not have sufficient knowledge, and scrutinizing additional information offers one way to acquire knowledge and restore or establish certainty." (p. 474)\
\
"We propose that when people receive persuasive messages, they can perceive their own responses to these messages (i.e., persuasion or resistance), reflect on those responses, and form attribution-like inferences about their attitudes that have implications for attitude certainty.  \'85  Furthermore, we posit that these effects can occur in the absence of any differences in the structure of people\'92s attitudes or the underlying content of their cognition (e.g., their attitude valence, extremity, or accessibility; the number or type of thoughts they have)." (p. 475)\
\
\
"How do people\'92s perceptions of their own responses to persuasive messages affect attitude certainty? We have proposed an attributional logic (see Kelley, 1972), suggesting that people can become either more or less certain of their attitudes following an encounter with a persuasive message, depending on their perceptions of their response to that message and the situation in which it occurs.\
Situational factors that foster positive appraisals of one\'92s message response should increase attitude certainty, whereas situational factors that foster negative appraisals of one\'92s message response should decrease attitude certainty (see Figure 1). In other words, people should become more certain of their attitudes when they believe their message response is justified, correct, legitimate, appropriate, or impressive (positive appraisal); and less certain of their attitudes when they believe their message response may be unjustified, incorrect, illegitimate, inappropriate, or unimpressive (negative appraisal).\
\'85 That is, regardless of whether people actually were resistant to or persuaded by a message, or whether their resistance or persuasion was correct or impressive in some way, they can become more or less certain of their attitudes when their subjective assessment of their message response leads them to a positive or negative appraisal, respectively." (p. 476)\
\
"perhaps people become more certain of their newly changed attitudes when they believe those attitudes have been changed by strong, and thus valid, arguments." (p. 478)\
\
"In general, the more valid people think their thoughts are, the more certain they are about the postmessage attitudes." (p. 479)\
\
"response similarity" (p. 480)\
"people tend to be more certain of their attitudes when they believe those attitudes are shared by others (e.g., Festinger, 1954; Orive, 1988; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Visser & Mirabile, 2004),\
presumably because learning that other people share one\'92s attitude provides social validation for that attitude (Fazio, 1979)." (p. 480)\
\
"they were more certain of their attitudes when they perceived that other people responded similarly rather than dissimilarly." (p. 480)\
\
"When one\'92s own response matches (mismatches) the responses of others, one forms more positive (negative) response appraisals, producing higher (lower) levels of attitude certainty." (pp. 480-481)\
\
Petrocelli et al. (2007)\'85 "found that clarity and correctness items were positively correlated, but they loaded onto separate factors in both exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses (see Table 1). Moreover, both clarity and correctness contributed to global attitude certainty in a simultaneous regression analysis, even after controlling for attitude extremity. Thus, clarity and correctness could be measured separately, and each appeared to explain unique variance in global feelings of attitude certainty." (p. 482)\
\
"Petrocelli et al. reasoned that these effects might mask more specific effects on clarity and correctness. For instance, repeated expression might increase feelings of attitude clarity but not correctness as repeatedly expressing the same attitude should facilitate the subjective sense that one knows what one\'92s attitude on a topic is without making that attitude seem any more correct or valid. Conversely, attitude consensus, or perceived social support for one\'92s attitude, might influence feelings of attitude correctness but not clarity. The rationale in this case is that believing that other individuals share one\'92s attitude should bolster one\'92s sense that that attitude is valid or justified, without making it seem any more one\'92s own." (p. 483)\
\
"Participants\'92 attitudes were more resistant to this attack when they were high rather than low in clarity, as well as when they were high rather than low in correctness." (p. 484)\
"the more certain one is of one\'92s attitude, the more predictive that attitude is of behavior (e.g., Fazio & Zanna, 1978; Rucker & Petty, 2004; Tormala et al., 2006) and the more resistant that attitude is to attack (e.g., Babad et al., 1987; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Tormala, DeSensi, & Petty, 2007)." (p. 484)\
\
"univalent attitudes tend to be more resistant to persuasive attack (e.g., Armitage & Conner, 2000; Visser & Mirabile, 2004) and more predictive of attitude-relevant behavior (e.g., Armitage & Conner; Glasman & Albarrac\'edn, 2006) than their ambivalent counterparts." (p. 485)\
"repeated attitude expression, for instance, affects attitude certainty but not attitude ambivalence (Petrocelli et al., 2007)." (p. 485)\
\
\
"Clarkson et al. (2007) extended these initial findings by testing another consequence of attitude certainty: attitude\'96 behavior correspondence. Again, it is well established that high certainty attitudes are more predictive of behavior than low certainty attitudes (e.g., Fazio & Zanna, 1978)." (p. 487)\
\
"Clarkson et al. (2007) expands current understandings of attitude certainty, suggesting that certainty has a fluid impact that depends on other properties of the attitude in question, such as the level of ambivalence underlying the attitude.\
...perhaps attitude clarity acts as an amplifying agent to the extent that it makes one\'92s ambivalence more salient and pressing, whereas attitude correctness acts as a crystallizing agent to the extent that it makes ambivalence seem more appropriate and less troublesome." (p. 488)\

\f1 \
\
\
\
\

\f0 "Indeed, Smith et al. (forthcoming) recently demonstrated that manipulated differences in the structural consistency of attitude-relevant knowledge can affect attitude certainty. The more consistent one\'92s underlying knowledge, the more certain one is of one\'92s attitude."\
(p. 472)\
\
"\'85Smith et al. (forthcoming) recently demonstrated that ... The more consistent one\'92s underlying [attitude-relevant] knowledge, the more certain one is of one\'92s attitude." (p. 472)
\f1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\f0 \cf0 \'a9 2007 The Authors Social and Personality Psychology Compass 1/1 (2007): 469\'96492, 10.1111/j.1751-9004.2007.00025.x Journal Compilation \'a9 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd\
\
\'a9 2007 The Authors Social and Personality Psychology Compass 1/1 (2007): 469\'96492, 10.1111/j.1751-9004.2007.00025.x Journal Compilation \'a9 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd\
\
\
---------- GENERAL ----------\
\
\
"Even without being directly challenged, attitudes can change over time." (p. 474)\
\
\
"We propose that when people receive persuasive messages, they can perceive their own responses to these messages (i.e., persuasion or resistance), reflect on those responses, and form attribution-like inferences about their attitudes that have implications for attitude certainty.  \'85  Furthermore, we posit that these effects can occur in the absence of any differences in the structure of people\'92s attitudes or the underlying content of their cognition (e.g., their attitude valence, extremity, or accessibility; the number or type of thoughts they have)." (p. 475)\
\
\
"How do people\'92s perceptions of their own responses to persuasive messages affect attitude certainty? We have proposed an attributional logic (see Kelley, 1972), suggesting that people can become either more or less certain of their attitudes following an encounter with a persuasive message, depending on their perceptions of their response to that message and the situation in which it occurs.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\b \cf0 Situational factors that foster positive appraisals of one\'92s message response should increase attitude certainty, whereas situational factors that foster negative appraisals of one\'92s message response should decrease attitude certainty (see Figure 1). In other words, people should become more certain of their attitudes when they believe their message response is justified, correct, legitimate, appropriate, or impressive (positive appraisal); and less certain of their attitudes when they believe their message response may be unjustified, incorrect, illegitimate, inappropriate, or unimpressive (negative appraisal).
\b0 \
\'85 That is, regardless of whether people actually were resistant to or persuaded by a message, or whether their resistance or persuasion was correct or impressive in some way, they can become more or less certain of their attitudes when their subjective assessment of their message response leads them to a positive or negative appraisal, respectively." (p. 476)\
\
\
\
---------- BEHAVIOR ----------\
\
"Attitude-behavior correspondence."\
"as attitude certainty increases, attitudes become increasingly likely to guide behavior (e.g., Berger & Mitchell, 1989; Bizer et al., 2006; Fazio & Zanna, 1978; Krishnan & Smith, 1998; Rucker & Petty, 2004; Tormala & Petty, 2002). " (p. 473)\
\
"the more certain one is of one\'92s attitude, the more predictive that attitude is of behavior (e.g., Fazio & Zanna, 1978; Rucker & Petty, 2004; Tormala et al., 2006) and the more resistant that attitude is to attack (e.g., Babad et al., 1987; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Tormala, DeSensi, & Petty, 2007)." (p. 484)\
\
"Clarkson et al. (2007) extended these initial findings by testing another consequence of attitude certainty: attitude\'96 behavior correspondence. Again, it is well established that high certainty attitudes are more predictive of behavior than low certainty attitudes (e.g., Fazio & Zanna, 1978)." (p. 487)\
\
\
\
---------- GREATER / INCREASED CERTAINTY  (justification??) ----------\
\
\
"people tend to be more certain of their attitudes when those attitudes are formed through direct (e.g., first hand interactions) rather than indirect (e.g., second hand viewing or reading) experience (e.g., Fazio & Zanna, 1978; Wu & Shaffer, 1987)." (pp. 470-471)\
\
\
\
"perhaps people become more certain of their newly changed attitudes when they believe those attitudes have been changed by strong, and thus valid, arguments." (p. 478)\
\
\
"repeating one\'92s attitude multiple times also has been shown to affect attitude certainty" (p. 471) (increases it)\
\
---------- KNOWLEDGE ----------\
\
"greater perceived knowledge has been shown to foster greater attitude certainty (e.g., Smith, Fabrigar, MacDougal, & Wiesenthal, forthcoming)." (p. 471)\
\
"\'85Smith et al. (forthcoming) recently demonstrated that ... The more consistent one\'92s underlying [attitude-relevant] knowledge, the more certain one is of one\'92s attitude." (p. 472)\
\
"This feeling of greater knowledge, in turn, fosters greater attitude certainty (see also Smith et al., forthcoming)." (p. 480)\
\
"Conversely, uncertainty indicates that people do not have sufficient knowledge, and scrutinizing additional information offers one way to acquire knowledge and restore or establish certainty." (p. 474)\
\

\b valid --> justification
\b0 \
"In general, the more valid people think their thoughts are, the more certain they are about the postmessage attitudes." (p. 479)\
\
\

\b [social consensus/response similarity used for form of justification  ]
\b0 \
\
"social consensus" (p. 472)\
"attitude certainty was greater following attitudinal agreement rather than disagreement. In essence, people infer validity from social consensus (e.g., Fazio, 1979) \'96 consensus is thought to signal that all the evidence points to the same attitude, which boosts attitude certainty if one holds that attitude oneself." (pp. 472-473)\
\
\
"response similarity" (p. 480)\
"people tend to be more certain of their attitudes when they believe those attitudes are shared by others (e.g., Festinger, 1954; Orive, 1988; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Visser & Mirabile, 2004),\
presumably because learning that other people share one\'92s attitude provides social validation for that attitude (Fazio, 1979)." (p. 480)\
\
\
\
\
---------- CONSENSUS ----------\
\
Social consensus. \'85 \
"people hold attitudes with greater certainty when those attitudes are supported by a high degree of social consensus or agreement (e.g., Festinger, 1954; Orive, 1988; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Visser & Mirabile, 2004)." (p. 472)\
\
\
\
"they were more certain of their attitudes when they perceived that other people responded similarly rather than dissimilarly." (p. 480)\
\
"When one\'92s own response matches (mismatches) the responses of others, one forms more positive (negative) response appraisals, producing higher (lower) levels of attitude certainty." (pp. 480-481)\
\
----------\
Petrocelli et al. "reasoned\'85 repeated expression might increase feelings of attitude clarity but not correctness \'85 Conversely, attitude consensus \'85 might influence feelings of attitude correctness but not clarity." (p. 483)\
\
Increased clarity: repeatedly expressing the same attitude should facilitate the subjective sense that one knows what one\'92s attitude on a topic is\
No change to correctness: without making that attitude seem any more correct or valid. \
\

\b "attitude consensus, 
\b0 or perceived social support for one\'92s attitude,"\
\
Increased correctness: believing that other individuals share one\'92s attitude should bolster one\'92s sense that that attitude is valid or justified\
no change to clarity: without making it seem any more one\'92s own.\
\
\
---------- RESISTANCE/PERSISTANCE/STABILITY ----------\
\

\b [could be used for either justification or resistance to change]
\b0 \
"high certainty tends to be associated with decreased information processing activity compared to low certainty (Edwards, 2003; Tiedens & Linton, 2001; Weary & Jacobson, 1997)." (p. 474) \
\
Resistance to attack.\
"\'85attitudes held with high certainty are more likely than attitudes held with low certainty to resist persuasive attacks or other influence attempts (e.g., Babad, Ariav, Rosen, & Salomon, 1987; Bassili, 1996; Kelley & Lamb, 1957; Krosnick & Abelson, 1992; Petrocelli et al., 2007; Swann, Pelham, & Chidester, 1988; Tormala & Petty, 2002)." (p. 473)\
\
\
"attitudes held with greater certainty are more persistent over time than attitudes held with less certainty (Bassili, 1996; see also Bizer et al., 2006)." (p. 474)\
\
\
"Participants\'92 attitudes were more resistant to this attack when they were high rather than low in clarity, as well as when they were high rather than low in correctness." (p. 484)\
\
\
"univalent attitudes tend to be more resistant to persuasive attack (e.g., Armitage & Conner, 2000; Visser & Mirabile, 2004) and more predictive of attitude-relevant behavior (e.g., Armitage & Conner; Glasman & Albarrac\'edn, 2006) than their ambivalent counterparts." (p. 485)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\f0 \cf0 ---------- AMBIVALENCE?? ----------\
\
"Clarkson et al. (2007) expands current understandings of attitude certainty, suggesting that certainty has a fluid impact that depends on other properties of the attitude in question, such as the level of ambivalence underlying the attitude. ... perhaps attitude clarity acts as an amplifying agent to the extent that it makes one\'92s ambivalence more salient and pressing, whereas attitude correctness acts as a crystallizing agent to the extent that it makes ambivalence seem more appropriate and less troublesome." (p. 488)\
\
"Clarkson et al. (2007) expands current understandings of attitude certainty, suggesting that certainty has a fluid impact that depends on other properties of the attitude in question" (p. 488)\
\
\
"repeated attitude expression, for instance, affects attitude certainty but not attitude ambivalence (Petrocelli et al., 2007)." (p. 485)\
\
---- clarity vs correctness (used above) ---\
\
Petrocelli et al. (2007)\'85 "found that clarity and correctness items were positively correlated, but they loaded onto separate factors in both exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses (see Table 1). Moreover, both clarity and correctness contributed to global attitude certainty in a simultaneous regression analysis, even after controlling for attitude extremity. Thus, clarity and correctness could be measured separately, and each appeared to explain unique variance in global feelings of attitude certainty." (p. 482)\
\
"Petrocelli et al. reasoned that these effects might mask more specific effects on clarity and correctness. For instance, repeated expression might increase feelings of attitude clarity but not correctness as repeatedly expressing the same attitude should facilitate the subjective sense that one knows what one\'92s attitude on a topic is without making that attitude seem any more correct or valid. Conversely, attitude consensus, or perceived social support for one\'92s attitude, might influence feelings of attitude correctness but not clarity. The rationale in this case is that believing that other individuals share one\'92s attitude should bolster one\'92s sense that that attitude is valid or justified, without making it seem any more one\'92s own." (p. 483)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1 \cf0 \
\
\
\
}