{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red160\green114\blue253;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Clear after net logo folder\
\
Arthur's questions\
\
safe sex teenager network articles\
\
48% stats\
\
AttitudeINfluence.xlsx\
\
\
--------------------\
\
\
Attitude \'96 users can separately define the degree to which a male or female agent wants to practice safe sex\
\
\
set possible links to just initial\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 friend groups of males and females, mostly clusters withs some social butterflies with links to other groups\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640
\cf0 Social network consisting of cliques with agents that primarily interact with each other, but might link to agents in other groups. Users can control the number and size of these cliques, and whether they are initialized with some inter-group connections.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 sex-education ; the level of accurate education this agent has about safe sex\
\
\
\
based on the work of Richard Petty.\
\
infection-chance ( infectivity)\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640
\cf2 Arthur's questions:\
\
If they mate, there is also a probability that they will use a form of protection. \
\
What determines with what probability people use protection?\
What are the parameters and influences of this kind of attitude?\
Maybe what their friends do make a difference?\
Or how their friends talk about and frame safe sex?\
Maybe just habit?\
What their parents told them?\
Long-term sexual partners\'92  attitudes?\
\
If they use protection, there is also a probability of using it correctly. \
\
What difference does knowledge make?\
What about confidence?\
Or alcohol?\
\
For instance, how would a person\'92s position in a network affect their risk of acquiring infections?\
How is a person\'92s sexual behavior impacted by their position in their social network?\
Or \'96 how is a person\'92s position in their social network related to their sexual activity? \
\
You mentioned knowledge, and (implicitly) attitudes about safe sex. Those two could make a pretty interesting extra layer on top of an SIR model.\
\
\
This probability will be influenced by attitudes and behaviors towards safe sex that a given turtle has, and these attitudes/behaviors are influenced by the other turtles (\'93friend group\'94) that the turtle is linked with. If the coupled turtles use protection, there is a probability of using it correctly \'96 if protection is used correctly, it is assumed that the disease will not be passed on. If the protection is used incorrectly or no protection is used, there is a higher probability that the infection will be passed to the partner of the agent. \
\
-	what parameters does \'93attitude\'94 consist of?\
-	How do they change over time?\
-	Do they change when people you know get STIs? \
 \
 \
- As an intervention:\
would this help you plan or target information campaigns?\
Can using your model tell us something about who we should target? \
\
Think about two things in particular: Are you modeling the spread of STIs, or the spread of attitudes about safe sex? \
Maybe you are modeling both, and maybe they are related?\
Probably. But then how?\
\
Those could be good research questions of the model, and would guide a small, informal lit review on attitudes and attitude changes on safe sex.\
\cf0 \
\
---------------------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \ul Questions I need to answer still:
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Instead of only getting an STD once (boolean had-std), perhaps do had-std as a count, and increased counts (if known) increase individual's desire to participate in safe sex\
{\listtext	\'95	}How to incorporate media fear? e.g. want to simulate everyone freaking out about aids, despite its low infection rate\
{\listtext	\'95	}Instead of reduction potential (influence decreases over time), implement something to do with confidence/unwillingness to change attitude? or maybe that is automatic, depending on how far from the median (0, or 50, or whatever the scale is) their opinion is?\
{\listtext	\'95	}Training was removed\'85. but maybe should look back into that, as a way of increasing STD awareness? Thinking of applications to campaigns targeted at this demographic\
{\listtext	\'95	}Do both partners need to want to use a condom for safe sex to occur?\
{\listtext	\'95	}female and male ranges for safe sex education, desire, attitude, vocality?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \ul How do people approach/think about/decide about safe sex?
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Most external levels:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}media influence, how much they hear/learn about it through not necessarily accurate resources\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Less external level\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}- certain level of education about safe sex, which may influence\'85\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}More internal level\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}parents and/or religious background\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}friends\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Most internal level\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}desire to have safe sex/ability to see benefits --> desire to have sex at all?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
}