{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Overview and Motivation\
\
This model aims to simulate the spread and development of safe sex attitudes and behaviors in response to the prevalence of a sexually transmitted infection (STI) throughout a social network of of young adults. It also takes into account how these variables influence one another and change over time using theories of attitude change and certainty.\
\
This project specifically focuses on modeling college students in the United States. Male and female students come to universities with diverse backgrounds, including education and attitudes towards(regarding???) safe sex behaviors.\
\
\
Model Parameters\
\
Social network: users can control control the number and size (members) of cliques, and whether they are initialized with some inter-group links. These cliques consist of agents that primarily interact with members of the same group. \
\
STI: users can control the likelihood of an infection spreading during an unprotected sex(ual??) encounter, and which genders (if any) show symptoms of the infection\
\
Attitude: users can separately define the initial likelihood a male vs. female agent will practice safe sex. (This attitude evolves during the course of the model.) -- remove?\
\
Certainty: agents have an initial confidence in their opinion, which might be influenced by factors such as parental guidance or religious background\
\
Justification: users can indicate the percentage of agents that receive sexual education including condom use. (The current value in America is about 48%)\
\
\
Guiding Questions\
\
What factors seem to be most influential in determining whether an individual will contract an STI?\
\
What factors influence the spread of attitudes towards safe sex?\
\
Are the two above questions interdependent? What implications could this have for targeting information campaigns to this age group?\
\
Other NetLogo Models\
AIDS\
Virus\
Virus on a Network\
Sullivan\'92s 372 Final Project (in Modeling Commons)\
\
\
References\
Petty\'92s theories of attitude change\
\
Model Behavior\
\
On each tick:\
Agents talk to their friends (indicated with blue links), and potentially update their opinions about (and consequently likelihood to practice) safe sex.\
\
Agents look for a sexual partner (male-female coupling). If they already have one, they have sex. The likelihood that the couple will engage in safe sex depends on the willingness of both participants.\
\
If one of the partners is infected and the couple has unprotected sex, there is a chance that the other partner will become infected. An infected agent is distinguished by a dot on their shape. \
\
Only agents of genders that are symptomatic (set by the symptomatic? slider) will know they are infected. If an agent knows s/he is infected, s/he will always want to practice safe sex for the rest of the simulation.\
\
If an agent has unsafe sex and doesn\'92t notice any consequences (either is not infected, or is not symptomatic), that agent\'92s inclination to practice safe sex will decrease.\
\
Sample Outcomes\
Members of the same social group influence one another\'92s attitudes\
Still has a negative attitude towards wearing a condom, because he doesn\'92t realize he is infected\
Dot color indicates whether the agent knows they have an STI (based on being symptomatic)\
Once an agent realizes they have an STI, they form a strong desire for safe sex \
\
\
Analysis & Sample Trials\
}